=head1 NAME

check_pgbackrest - pgBackRest backup check plugin for Nagios

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  check_pgbackrest [-s|--service SERVICE] [-S|--stanza NAME]
  check_pgbackrest [-l|--list]
  check_pgbackrest [--help]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

check_pgbackrest is designed to monitor pgBackRest (2.32 and above) backups from Nagios.

=over

=item B<-s>, B<--service> SERVICE

The Nagios service to run. See section SERVICES for a description of
available services or use C<--list> for a short service and description
list.

=item B<-S>, B<--stanza> NAME

Name of the stanza to check.

=item B<--repo> REPOSITORY

Repository index to operate on. If no C<--repo> argument is provided, the
service will operate on all repositories defined, checking for inconsistencies
across multiple repositories. When using multiple repositories, it is
recommended to also define checks using the C<--repo> argument to verify the
sanity of each repository separately.

=item B<-O>, B<--output> OUTPUT_FORMAT

The output format. Supported outputs are: C<human>, C<json>, C<nagios> (default),
C<nagios_strict> and C<prtg>.

The C<nagios_strict> output format will filter out unsupported types of values
from the performance data.

=item B<-C>, B<--command> FILE

pgBackRest executable file (default: "pgbackrest").

=item B<-c>, B<--config> CONFIGURATION_FILE

pgBackRest configuration file.

=item B<-P>, B<--prefix> COMMAND

Some prefix command to execute the pgBackRest info command 
(eg: "sudo -iu postgres").

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

List available services.

=item B<--debug>

Print some debug messages.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and exit.

=item B<-?>, B<--help>

Show this help page.

=back

=head2 SERVICES

Descriptions and parameters of available services.

=over

=item B<retention>

Fail when the number of full backups is less than the 
C<--retention-full> argument.

Fail when the number of incremental backups is less than the
C<--retention-incr> argument.

Fail when the newest backup is older than the C<--retention-age> 
argument.

Fail when the newest full backup is older than the 
C<--retention-age-to-full> argument.

The following units are accepted (not case sensitive): s (second), m 
(minute), h (hour), d (day). You can use more than one unit per 
given value.

Arguments are not mandatory to only show some information.

=item B<archives>

Check if all archived WALs exist between the oldest and the latest 
WAL needed for the recovery.

Use the C<--wal-segsize> argument to set the WAL segment size.

The following units are accepted (not case sensitive):
b (Byte), k (KB), m (MB), g (GB), t (TB), p (PB), e (EB) or Z (ZB). Only
integers are accepted. Eg. C<1.5MB> will be refused, use C<1500kB>.

The factor between units is 1024 bytes. Eg. C<1g = 1G = 1024*1024*1024.> 

Use the C<--ignore-archived-before> argument to ignore the archived 
WALs generated before the provided interval. Used to only check the
latest archives.

Use the C<--ignore-archived-after> argument to ignore the archived 
WALs generated after the provided interval.

The C<--latest-archive-age-alert> argument defines the max age of 
the latest archived WAL as an interval before raising a critical 
alert.

The following units are accepted as interval (not case sensitive):
s (second), m (minute), h (hour), d (day). You can use more than 
one unit per given value. If not set, the last unit is in seconds. 
Eg. "1h 55m 6" = "1h55m6s".

All the missing archives are only shown in the C<--debug> mode.

Use C<--list-archives> in addition with C<--debug> to print the list of all the
archived WAL segments.

By default, all the archives older than the oldest backup start archive 
or newer than the max_wal returned by the pgBackRest info command 
are ignored. 

Use the C<--extended-check> argument to force a full check of the found 
archives and raise warnings in case of inconsistencies.

When WAL archives on different timelines are found, .history files are parsed to
find the switch point and define the boundary WAL.

Use the C<--max-archives-check-number> to prevent infinite WAL archives check
when boundary WAL can't be defined properly.

=item B<check_pgb_version>

Check if this script is running a given version.

You must provide the expected version using C<--target-version>.

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTING

check_pgbackrest is an open project. Any contribution to improve it is welcome.

=head1 VERSION

check_pgbackrest version 2.1, released on Tue Sep 21 2021.

=head1 LICENSING

This program is open source, licensed under the PostgreSQL license.
For license terms, see the LICENSE file.

=head1 AUTHORS

Author: Stefan Fercot.

Logo: Damien Cazeils (www.damiencazeils.com).

Copyright: (c) 2018-2020, Dalibo / 2020-2021, Stefan Fercot.

